README.md, before:

# Bare Metal Tetris

Tetris for x86.

![QEMU screenshot](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/programble/bare-metal-tetris/master/screenshot.png)

## Features

 - Color text display
 - PC speaker sound effects
 - Help screen
 - Tetrimino preview
 - Tetrimino ghost
 - Soft & hard drop
 - Pause
 - Score and levels
 - Increasing difficulty
 - Tetrimino statistics

## Technical Overview

Bare Metal Tetris does not use processor interrupts, since initializing
and using them seemed too complex for a single-file Tetris game.
Instead, it uses a combination of an infinite loop, CPU tick counting,
and the real-time clock (RTC) to achieve timing.

The timing calibration function is called on every iteration of the main
loop. This function checks the RTC to determine if a second has passed
since the last calibration. If one has, the number of CPU ticks since
boot is retrieved using the `rdtsc` instruction, and the number of ticks
elapsed in the last second is calculated. This is then divided and set
as the `tpms`, or "ticks per millisecond" value. Timing functions then
use this value, along with the same `rdtsc` instruction, to determine if
a number of milliseconds have elapsed since a previous call. These
timing values can be seen in the debug screen, toggled using `D`.

In order to properly calibrate the `tpms` before the game starts, the
title screen is shown for at least one second. That is, the RTC second
value must change twice before the timing is properly calibrated and the
game can start.

The main loop also checks for keyboard input by polling on each
iteration, and takes care of updating game state and redrawing the
screen if any state has changed.

## Building

```
make
```

Requires the NASM assembler, a C compiler and a linker.

The build tries to use an `i386-elf` target GCC cross-compiler by
default. To change the target tuple, pass a `TARGET` value to `make`. On
x86 or x86_64 systems that already target ELF, such as Linux, the system
compiler can be used by passing `CC=gcc LD=ld` to `make`.

The build output is a multiboot ELF file `tetris.elf`.

## Running

### QEMU

```
make qemu
```

The multiboot ELF file can be booted directly by the QEMU emulator.

### ISO

```
make tetris.iso
```

A bootable ISO can be created using GRUB's `stage2_eltorito` (included
in this repository) to boot the multiboot ELF file.

`genisoimage` is used to crate the ISO file. On systems without
`genisoimage`, `mkisofs` from the `cdrtools` package can be used instead
by passing `GENISOIMAGE=mkisofs` to `make`.

The resulting `tetris.iso` file can then be booted with the QEMU
emulator using `make qemu-iso`, attached to a virtual machine as a CD
drive, or burned to a CD and booted on real hardware.

## License

Copyright © 2013–2014, Curtis McEnroe <programble@gmail.com>

Permission to use, copy, modify, and/or distribute this software for any
purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.

Commit message:

Add binaries info to README

README.md, after:

# Bare Metal Tetris

Tetris for x86.

![QEMU screenshot](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/programble/bare-metal-tetris/master/screenshot.png)

## Features

 - Color text display
 - PC speaker sound effects
 - Help screen
 - Tetrimino preview
 - Tetrimino ghost
 - Soft & hard drop
 - Pause
 - Score and levels
 - Increasing difficulty
 - Tetrimino statistics

## Technical Overview

Bare Metal Tetris does not use processor interrupts, since initializing
and using them seemed too complex for a single-file Tetris game.
Instead, it uses a combination of an infinite loop, CPU tick counting,
and the real-time clock (RTC) to achieve timing.

The timing calibration function is called on every iteration of the main
loop. This function checks the RTC to determine if a second has passed
since the last calibration. If one has, the number of CPU ticks since
boot is retrieved using the `rdtsc` instruction, and the number of ticks
elapsed in the last second is calculated. This is then divided and set
as the `tpms`, or "ticks per millisecond" value. Timing functions then
use this value, along with the same `rdtsc` instruction, to determine if
a number of milliseconds have elapsed since a previous call. These
timing values can be seen in the debug screen, toggled using `D`.

In order to properly calibrate the `tpms` before the game starts, the
title screen is shown for at least one second. That is, the RTC second
value must change twice before the timing is properly calibrated and the
game can start.

The main loop also checks for keyboard input by polling on each
iteration, and takes care of updating game state and redrawing the
screen if any state has changed.

## Building

```
make
```

Requires the NASM assembler, a C compiler and a linker.

The build tries to use an `i386-elf` target GCC cross-compiler by
default. To change the target tuple, pass a `TARGET` value to `make`. On
x86 or x86_64 systems that already target ELF, such as Linux, the system
compiler can be used by passing `CC=gcc LD=ld` to `make`.

The build output is a multiboot ELF file `tetris.elf`.

## Binaries

Binary ELF files and ISO images can be found on the
[releases](https://github.com/programble/bare-metal-tetris/releases)
page.

## Running

### QEMU

```
make qemu
```

The multiboot ELF file can be booted directly by the QEMU emulator.

### ISO

```
make tetris.iso
```

A bootable ISO can be created using GRUB's `stage2_eltorito` (included
in this repository) to boot the multiboot ELF file.

`genisoimage` is used to crate the ISO file. On systems without
`genisoimage`, `mkisofs` from the `cdrtools` package can be used instead
by passing `GENISOIMAGE=mkisofs` to `make`.

The resulting `tetris.iso` file can then be booted with the QEMU
emulator using `make qemu-iso`, attached to a virtual machine as a CD
drive, or burned to a CD and booted on real hardware.

## License

Copyright © 2013–2014, Curtis McEnroe <programble@gmail.com>

Permission to use, copy, modify, and/or distribute this software for any
purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
